We are actually missing one more thing.
For our purposes, we're gonna
do a very simple version of it.
But we're gonna createMemo and
createMemo as I mentioned
is our derivation.
And in an actual reactive system
where we do these topological sorts,
it'd be much more complicated.
But for you just kinda coming in and
kinda getting a grasp of it.
The easiest way to create
a memo conceptually,
Is just creating a signal.
And creating an effect.
[LAUGH]
Now as I mentioned,
this is not perfectly what it is.
And actually we have to return
the signal too obviously.
But this will actually effectively
do what we want from what we
saw with our examples previously.
We could I don't know, take create,
we can go,
let's call this sum = createMemo.
And we can say count () + count2 ().
And now, can I get rid of this for
a moment?
All right, and
import it from our file and now,
we now we're looking at the sum,
and actually,
let's just do count, count2 and sum.
All right.
All right,
this one is a little bit trivial
compared to what an actual
reactive system works like.
But this has all the kind
of key pieces and
characteristics that we
find in a reactive system.
The key part is to understand that there's
this global context that's kind of shared.
And all we're doing is kind of leveraging
the stack in order to keep track of
what's running and what's not running.
And I guess for our sake, I mentioned
earlier that I would implement it.
Let's implement untrack,
just because we can.
I'm gonna export function untrack.
Really all we have to do to
implement untrack is basically for
the underlying signals.
So we can go const prevContext = context.
Context = []equals empty array,
run our function and
say context = prevContext,
certain other function.
In so, if we do this whatever
runs inside this function now,
inside the read will not find
the effect and will not subscribe.
And what can we do here to,
I'm trying to think of,
I mean it's sort of uninteresting, but
we can go untrack, count,
and import untrack.
Assignment to a constant variable,
did I use const of habit.
Actually, no it's not this one the
problem, this one's a problem, all right?
Undefined, this is what
you always wanna see.
Count, count.
[LAUGH] And
it's important to return your results,
[LAUGH] in your untrack function.
So from there, essentially what
we're seeing is we only seen
the count of its initial value,
I'll make it a 10 for now.
And even though we update it again,
it doesn't run again, okay?
So that is basically
reactive fundamentals.